.. $Id$

=======
LICENSE
=======

Except when noted in individual files, this project is distributed
under `BSD 3-Clause License
<http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause>`__.

.. note::

 If this file is changed, "LICENSE.txt" and "licenses.txt" must be
 updated too.

License Text (BSD 3-Clause License)
-----------------------------------

Copyright (c) 2008-2013, Jesus Cea Avion <jcea@jcea.es>
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
with the distribution.

3. Neither the name of Jesus Cea Avion nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND
CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR
TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF
THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

License of individual files
---------------------------

The history of this project is long and complicated, and so are
their copyrights and licenses. I (Jesus Cea) write this document
in orden to clarify the situation.

This code was integrated once in Python 2.x, so I guess somebody
did the paperwork related to contributor agreement. This code is
derived from that version, so that could be a license
checkpoint/blank sheet. I must verify that.

New files will be covered by the 3-clause BSD license.

License of Python files
+++++++++++++++++++++++

    * Except the following files, license is 3-clause BSD license.
      Jesus Cea Avion.

    * test2.py, test3.py: Zope Public License, version 2.0.
      Zope Corporation and contributors.

    * Lib*/bsddb/dbrecio.py:
      Itamar Shtull-Trauring <itamar@maxnm.com>.

    * Lib*/bsddb/__init__.py: 3-clause BSD license.
      Digital Creations and Andrew Kuchling.

    * Lib*/bsddb/db.py: 3-clause BSD license.
      Digital Creations and Andrew Kuchling.

    * Lib*/bsddb/dbobj.py, dbutils.py: Free software.
      Autonomous Zone Industries, Gregory P. Smith.

    * Lib*/bsddb/dbtables.py: Free software.
      Autonomous Zone Industries, Gregory P. Smith.

    * Lib*/bsddb/test/test_dbtables.py: Free software.
      Autonomous Zone Industries, Gregory P. Smith.

    * Lib*/bsddb/dbshelve.py: Free software.
      Total Control Software.

    * Lib*/bsddb/test_support.py: PYTHON
      (This code will be dropped when minimum supported
      version is Python 2.6)

License of C files
++++++++++++++++++

    * Modules/bsddb.h, _bsddb.c: 3-clause BSD license.
      Digital Creations, Andrew Kuchling, Robin Dunn,
      Gregory P. Smith, Duncan Grisby, Jesus Cea Avion.


